Brett, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
Well, thank you very much for having me.
It's awesome to have you here.
A pair of Kennedys on the show.
First time ever.
That's pretty awesome.
Yep.
Well, it should be much more common.
Indeed.
Well, thank you for coming on the show.
I'm really interested to talk some data science and mathy type things with Python.
Python is being used for data science and analysis and just general science and mathematics so much these days.
I wonder if people have maybe a perception out there thinking, well, Python is kind of like, yeah, people use that for the web and stuff.
And true.
But these days, it's data science, machine learning, those things, right?
Yeah.
I mean, other languages are used a fair amount.
Statistical analysis are.
Mm-hmm.
They're still used.
Information.
Machine learning.
People will look at other languages.
C++ is used a lot.
And like Mojo and things are coming through now that are.
But still, a very, very large percent is done in Python.
All that work we're seeing with large language models, for example.
Like, you know, that's pretty much all Python.
And a lot of, you know, standard, you know, traditional machine learning.
It's done in, a very large portion of it's done in Python, yeah.
Yeah.
And outlier detection as well.
I think Python is probably, I mean, arguably, but I think probably the richest set of tools for outlier detection of any language.
Again, you know, R has quite a good suite.
And you get good, you know, good Java and other places.
But Python is probably where you find the strongest, just the sheer number of them.
And also, you know, it covers a lot of, you know, the deep learning techniques and, you know, some kind of approaches to outlier detection.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Well, we're going to dive into it.
You've written a whole book on it and a bunch of cool techniques you pulled out.
We're going to talk about some libraries and things like that, as well as some other examples.
But before we get into that, let's just hear a quick introduction about who you are and what you do these days.
Sure.
Yeah.
Yes.
Well, my name is Brett Kennedy.
So I've worked in software in one capacity or another for about 30 years now.
I did my master's degree quite a long time ago at the University of Toronto.
And I was actually well, I was around 98, 99.
So during one of the times when AI was maybe a bit of a winter.
And yeah, that was a very, very good experience going there.
And yeah, I've worked for one company doing software that was used for financial auditing.
So, and that's where I really started to get into data science.
And that was about 15 years ago.
Kind of, you know, when it's a little bit, not as mainstream as it is today.
I mean, there's certainly a lot of other people doing it, but it wasn't, you know, the gigantic industry that it is now.
Yeah, there's definitely some inflection points or places where it's really taken some steps, significant steps up in the Python data science and ML space.
Probably one is the Pandas NumPy era around 2006.
Something around 2012.
I don't know really what caused that.
And certainly the machine learning AI is a whole nother spike of growth there.
So you were doing, it was kind of before mainstream data science, right?
Yeah.
I mean, it was starting to become mainstream.
But like when working with text, for example, you know, there's certain, you know, there's spaCy and Word2Vac and Glove and things like that.
But, you know, this is long before GPT.
But, you know, Psychic Learn existed.
And this was cool.
Yeah.
So we're actually using a lot of the same tools that you would use now.
But, you know, there are a little bit earlier versions of them.
Yeah.
Sure.
You know, yeah.
So things have progressed certainly a lot.
Though, you know, some things just work and have been fairly stable.
Yeah.
And in that space, you know, I imagine a lot of the work that's been done on the faster CPython initiative is probably paying benefits.
I mean, one of the things about Python is it does have a reputation as being not the fastest language you can use.
Now, you know, old versions of Python were certainly slower.
It is getting faster.
Yeah.
C++ is probably about as performant as you can get.
But, you know, a lot of like Psychic Learn, for example, is, you know, uses Cython.
So you get, you know, C code.
Yeah.
See, you get.
It also goes back to, you know, what are you measuring?
What is your metric for fast?
Yeah.
What are your expectations?
And yeah.
Yeah.
And I could make a really fast thing in two weeks in C++ or I could make a somewhat slower thing but get you the answer in half a day in Python.
Mm-hmm.
It might run five times longer.
But you'll have the answer today.
You know what I mean?
Like that kind of thing.
Yes.
Yeah.
There's really a trade-off.
And I think, I mean, it's kind of the, well, it's really the approach we've taken in data science is to really privilege the data scientist's time over the computation time.
Yeah.
And when it really does become a problem, there's a lot of stuff written in C or Rust or whatever, you know, Polars, Pandas, et cetera.
Are you a fan of Polars?
I've been using it.
I use it when there's a need.
I mean, I'm still a big fan of Pandas and I still use it quite a lot.
But when there's a performance issue, yeah, Polars is one of the things I'll turn to.
Okay.
Yeah.
Excellent.
So we're going to talk about outlier detection.
And I think maybe a good way to sort of introduce this topic is to maybe understand the problem space just a tiny bit.
Because sometimes you might think, well, if the mean is really weird or the median is really weird or something like that, then we might have an outlier.
We can go check it out.
But it's really a lot more subtle than that.
And I want to maybe go back to a guest I had six months ago or something like that, Stephanie Molin.
And she has this really cool project called Datamorph, which I'll link to on GitHub.
And we talked about it then.
But if you pull up her GitHub repo, it's an animated GIF, I believe, of a whole bunch of different very clear concrete shapes, like a star, literally a panda.
Not pandas, but the animal.
And continuous animation, a bunch of data points that go from one to the other.
And it shows the mean over time.
It's the same.
The standard deviation is the same.
The correlation, the same, effectively, to like, you know, four to the thousandth sort of thing.
And it just shows you this is not as simple as finding stuff that's just off the linear interpolation line or something like that, right?
Yeah.
It's a good example.
Using a single or a handful of metrics to evaluate a data set can be a bit oversimplistic.
You can miss a lot of nuance when you do that.
Yeah.
And you do definitely get into the same sort of issues when you're looking at outliers.
And a lot of areas of data science where you can kind of mislead by looking at metrics that maybe, you know, are relevant.
But, you know, just don't tell the full story.
Right.
It's one view, but maybe it's not.
It doesn't, for sure, like you said, it doesn't tell the whole story.
So let's talk about, you know, what is this outlier detection stuff?
And really, you know, why do people care?
What kind of problems are being solved with it and so on?
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, often when people start to learn machine learning, you know, one of the early things you'll learn is, you know, there's supervised machine learning and there's unsupervised machine learning.
You know, the two bigger areas of it are probably clustering and outlier detection.
And there's, you know, sometimes dimensionality reduction is kind of considered unsupervised as well.
So, you know, there's kind of a whole host.
It's kind of like there's a whole host of reasons you might want to do clustering.
It's a little bit like that.
It's just one of those things that turns up time and again when you're doing machine learning.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
Outlier detection can be done for, for example, if you have a data set and you just want to say you just want to try and understand the data.
You know.
There's really kind of two main parts to that.
There's, you know, what are trying to figure out what are the general patterns in the data and what are the exceptions to those?
And once you, you know, have both of those, you say, well, here's the patterns and here's the extent to which those patterns hold true in the data, which is the outliers.
That kind of gives you a good sense of what the data is.
When you're checking for data quality, outlier tests are very useful.
It gives you, like if you have, say, a table of, well, whatever it is, credit card transactions or whatever.
You can do this for image data or audio data or, you know, data of really any type.
But let's take a simple example of tabular data.
You might have a, you know, spreadsheet with a few million rows of credit card transactions or, you know, SQL table.
If you want to check it for errors, you know, before you go on to do other sort of analysis, either data mining or building predictive models or the like.
You know, one thing we often do is try and see, well, what kind of data quality am I dealing with here?
So, and there's a number of ways to do that.
But one of the steps you might often perform is say, well, do outlier detection and see, you know, what are the strangest rows in my data?
Because you see the strangest credit card transactions in there.
Or if you could be a little more involved analysis, you might look at, you know, the most unusual string of transactions for a given user or a given store or something like that.
And if you say, well, okay, weird is only this weird, then, you know, you can have some sort of sense of what sort of range of anomalousness might be in your data.
But yes, it's used, outlier detection is used a lot as well in security.
Where would it be used like checking for fraud, checking for errors?
I mean, it's used in scientific analysis a lot.
But, you know, it's very common for scientific projects for just, you know, collect data, you know, through sensors or, you know, hand collecting data or whatever.
Case of astronomy, it's, you know, through telescopes.
Yeah.
You know, we just collect, you know, well, astronomy is a good example where we collect such phenomenal volumes of data that if you want to find anything interesting in there.
You know, we used to be able to find interesting phenomena in astronomy data just by manually going through it.
You know, one example given the book is that's how pulsars were discovered.
Mm-hmm.
probably.
So to, to really find something really, really interesting, given that you, you know, we might collect, you know, petabytes of data per night.
Really, the most effective way is just go, an anomaly, run an anomaly detection on the data and say, you know, what are the strangest things in this set of data?
And those are, you know, odds are those are going to be the most interesting things there.
You know, maybe things we've never seen before or haven't seen, you know, a whole lot.
Yeah.
At least some examples.
I do want to point.
A lot of my video games as well as, oh, sorry about that.
Oh, no.
When I talked to Sarah Eisen about imaging a black, the black hole, the first black hole image with Python, they, she talked about shipping, actually shipping hard drives around to sync up the data because there was so much data that it was faster.
So much data.
Put it onto a plane and send it from all the different locations around the world.
It literally couldn't keep up the internet.
And so they are like, all right, we're going to just box them up into these big crates and ship them around.
That's, that's when you're talking that much data, you got to get a plane involved.
It's, it's pretty wild.
Yeah.
We had that.
We had, we weren't doing anomaly detection at the time, but yeah, one of the companies I've worked with just dealing with financial data.
It was actually, we actually collected so much.
It's actually faster to mail it.
Really?
You did.
You ended up doing that as well.
Yeah.
At times.
How much of a hard drive would you put in the mail?
It wouldn't be just a terabyte.
It would have to be a pretty big hard drive or set of hard drives, right?
Yeah.
Well, part of the explanation of why we're doing this was, this was about 15 years ago.
I see.
I think.
A terabyte sounds like a whole lot.
Yeah.
I think the internet we were paying for at the time was, you know, having sort of speeds we have the internet now was, you know, the costs were prohibitive back then.
Yeah, exactly.
I've gigabit up and down at home for 75 bucks, which, you know, you could have sent it over that probably.
Yeah.
It's not quite back when the internet had a sound.
Do you remember when the internet had a sound?
I do remember.
You would connect to it and you would be like, okay, that's a good connection.
We're going to have some stuff happening today.
Yes.
Yeah.
But that's, that's early nineties when the internet stopped having a sound.
Mid nineties.
All right.
It stopped.
Yeah.
That's about when I first started getting a little, just as it's kind of being opened up.
I remember the early days.
It was basically university students that were on there.
Yeah, exactly.
We would, what I would do when I was in high school is I would, my brothers, my brother and I, we would call the local university and they had a library dial up for dial up modems.
And then you get onto Telnet and go for an Archie.
This is before the worldwide web existed, right?
Before Mosaic.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
And for people that know what I'm talking about.
Exactly.
Telnet.
Yes.
Yeah.
Encrypted FTP, by the way, we had so much trust.
We were so naive, but yeah, when you would connect, it would go.
And depending on the sound, you would get to where you would go.
Oh, that means I connected this bit rate or that bit rate.
Right.
It's so wild.
Yep.
I'm nostalgic for it.
I want nothing to do with it.
I'm so happy we are where we are.
Yeah.
There's a certain charm to it, but.
But if you went back to it, you would hate it.
Yeah.
I think now.
You would watch the images load.
You would almost see the progressive scan lines come in.
I mean, it was really, it wasn't ideal.
No.
I had a roommate once who used to download images.
These are just the same JPEGs, the same sort of files we have today.
But it would take literally overnight to download a JPEG.
Incredible.
Yeah.
Well, they were interesting times, but we've certainly moved on.
So that's, that's all good.
Now, I think you talked about some examples where you're looking for outliers for fraud,
like credit card.
You talked about mailing around the financial data for those kinds of things.
I think it seems to me that outliers might also reveal new science or new information that you didn't expect.
Like it's an outlier because it doesn't match our model.
Yep.
But something is happening over here.
And I think, you know, you pointed out astronomy, right?
Like that part is really bizarrely bright.
Why is that so bright?
Is that a, you know, oh, that's a quasar.
That's what that is.
Yeah.
So yeah.
Brightness, you're not expecting or a shape of a galaxy.
You're not expecting that sort of thing.
Right.
That nebula turns out to be a galaxy.
We thought there was only one galaxy.
Now there's many.
Right.
That kind of thing.
Yeah.
There's, yeah.
It's, it's definitely a case.
I think science is definitely a good example where, you know, outliers is something you want to find.
Yeah.
It's like biological data.
It's, it's used a lot too.
And well, I guess a lot of areas.
The CERN particle accelerator at CERN uses outlier detection a lot just to, to, just to find interesting things.
Yeah.
And, you know, to check that, you know, things are within certain bounds of what they expect or not.
But yeah, I mean, when you're dealing with certain domains, like one example that's kind of maybe the other end of the spectrum was be when you have, say you're monitoring industrial systems, like an assembly line.
Mm-hmm.
Line or something like this.
That's where you want something, you want the whole system to work in a specific way.
Yeah.
And any kind of veering from that is, is probably a problem or, or indication of a potent problem down the road.
Right.
You've got some IoT thing or you've got a more industrial type of robot.
And all of a sudden it's, it's drilling holes outside of where you used to have it drill holes.
Yeah.
It's, it's behavior is unusual or just.
Sensors picking up, tenders or certain, sound levels that are, that are higher than normal or oscillating faster than normal or something.
Yeah.
So, yeah, quite often.
I know it could be something interesting or it could be, it could be a problem.
yeah, it really depends on the context, but in, in, in most cases there, there's something
that's, you know, for one reason or other, there's, it's common for them to be worth
investigating for, for, you know, to expand your knowledge of, of the system or to just to
find faired out problems.
Sure.
What's the scale of data that outlier detection makes sense for?
If I've got 20 measurements, does it make sense to ask this question?
If I've got 200 billion, is that too much to ask the question for?
Like, what's the story there?
Yeah, it's good.
it's a good question.
I mean, when you have a very, yes.
I mean, it's like, a lot of areas that could be, I guess the same thing with clustering
or predictive models or general things of too little data, you can have too much.
And there, there's kind of a sweet spot where the results are statistically stable, but,
you know, it doesn't take you forever to find them.
Yeah.
They're statistically stable, but they can be computed.
Yes.
Yeah.
It's not, you know, a lot of problems, you know, like if you have, say you're checking
your, you're a large company and you're just checking your, your accounting data for
anomalies.
And it, it, you know, there can be a lot of value to, and you could probably, you know,
in a lot of cases you can measure written in dollar value.
if you find, well, if you find fraud, like you're a high level fraud where your,
your, your CFO is misrepresenting the company or something, or, or low level fraud where your
staff are ripping you off or just errors or any inefficiencies or, you know, contractors
or, or what's up contractors or something.
Yeah.
They can, yeah.
Often when contractors are working, working on, working on you some way, they'll be doing
kind of a concert with maybe some of your staff.
there's could be some collusion or things like that.
So looking at your staff behavior, it'd be worth, it could be, it'd be worth a lot of
money and the benefit in it.
But you know, if it takes you 600 hours to run a process and you find, you know, one thing
it may or may not be cost effective.
Well, that, that example wouldn't be cost effective.
yeah.
So there's kind of, you know, a balancing act, you, you want to follow.
Yeah.
If you, if you have extremely small of points, you save one is anomalous given the others.
If you have a bunch of, say you're going through your, your, maybe just looking at,
just thinking of example of, of staff and areas that are, that company say you have, on
staff, you have a bunch of, people employed, they're purchasers.
They're just employed to buy supplies from your suppliers.
And, you know, some, maybe you have 10 of them and most of them may.
And that work today, you have one that every Friday makes, you know,
200 purchases a day.
so you only have like 10 points there, but, you know, one of them is so off the
scale that you can say with some confidence that, you know, this is not necessarily a problem,
but it is anomalous and it is worth understanding.
yeah.
you know, either there's some errors or fraud or inefficiency or something, or the other
people are just, they're the anomaly.
They're, they're not doing their, they're not doing their job.
Yeah.
They're not buying it.
But you're, you're definitely right too.
You can have the other, probably just have so much data.
It's hard to, to go through.
Are there techniques?
Sorry.
Are there techniques that people use for like use, for example,
Dask or Q, Q, QPy, like the Q, the CUDA stuff for GPUs?
Are there sort of like really high end compute stuff that people are using for these problems?
Yep.
Yeah.
yeah.
And that's, especially if using a deep learning, well, I guess only, but if you're using something
that has a lot of matrix operations, yeah, a GPU will, will speed that up.
and, and Dask will, will often, work out, especially have memory limitations as well.
a lot of, LR detection should be done in parallel, which can, can speed things up.
LR detection works a little bit like, predictive models in that there's, there's a train step and
then there's a inference step.
Okay.
So those are two different.
You train it what's normal and then you ask it if things seem normal or not.
Yeah, exactly.
So you, you normally what you do when you, with, outlier detection is you have a collection
of data.
So, or if you take the example of an industrial process, so say you monitor your, let's,
let's say in this example, a lot of data, so collecting temperature and sound and, humidity
and, and, and so on, information.
And, say you have a process that's run for weeks without,
any problem.
so during that time, you know that everything was running properly.
So you can take that data and.
And, to, to train on, and then that builds up a sense of what's normal.
in this case, it's not only statistically normal, but it's also kind of like a, like a platonic
norm.
It's, it's, it's, it's, it's desirable, as well.
and that's, that's your inference step.
And, and, a lot of times they're done once or every few months or something.
and so it's not, terrible.
If it takes a little bit of time to train and other contexts in like a real time situation,
you can have, you know, streaming environments.
We're just constantly reading and dad and it's your sense of what's the new normal.
It's, you know, you might be retraining every few minutes or.
Very few hours in, in which case it becomes a lot more relevant, but it can be, it can
be done off, offline, but, yeah.
And then, and then just your inference time.
And, and that, that can be, that can be really relevant.
there's certain ways to keep down your, your training time as well as times.
If you have, like months of sensor readings, you might not need to, train on
all of them.
You can just take a sample of them or, you know, a certain time slice or something like
that.
And that's, that's good enough to establish a decent sense of what's normal.
Right.
It seems to me that the training could be done on a subset and that would probably
be okay.
But I feel like the detection might need to run nearly on everything, right?
Cause it might be that, that one in a million sort of thing, right?
Astronomely you're looking for that one little bright spot or that one little dip in brightness
for a transit of a planet or something.
Or, you know, I've had my credit card.
put on a block until I unblocked it because I bought something in a vending machine for
a dollar with a credit card.
Yeah.
And they're like, well, a lot of people who steal cards, they'll take them to vending
machines to try them.
Cause it's a safe place with no one there to see if the stolen card still works and then
they'll go do bad stuff.
Yeah.
yeah.
I mean, I think I would suspect.
Well, it could have been cause they do run outlier detection routines.
They could be doing that or they could have been using it like a rule-based system.
Like you're describing where, you know, if it's for very, you know, if it's in a certain
location for a certain dollar value, a certain time of day.
And one might've just faked it because of that.
it was very shady.
I was at the university.
Oh, that's good.
But yeah.
Yeah.
It's definitely the case that I'm in most of the time when you're running outlier detection,
yeah.
You want to check all of your data.
Cause otherwise it kind of, you know, the question is, are there any anomalies in my data?
There are exceptions to that where you just want to check, you just kind of want to spot
check your data and just want to make sure it's largely free of outliers or that, you
know, there's not, I mean, depending on how you define them, like, for example,
with sensor readings, like you always expect a certain number of point anomalies, like a
certain point in time where, you know, something spikes up and it's not, it is an anomaly, but
it's not a big deal.
so in some, some cases you might just want to make sure that your number of point
anomalies is normal.
So, so you, you don't have an unusual number of unusual events, in, in that case, or,
you know, cases like that, or if you're just doing data quality checks, for example, you
might just want to make sure your data is largely, how do you know that you don't get outliers
in your training set?
If you just, just feed it like a stream of data, you're like, well, this is what's normal.
Well, actually there were outliers, but you weren't ready to detect them yet.
And now it's, yeah.
Yeah.
most of the time.
When you, when you train, you, you do assume that there's a certain number of outliers,
uh, in your data.
yeah.
So you're, we are training on is often, a statistical norm.
It's, it's what's normative.
It's, it's not necessarily what's ideal.
and clean.
It's very hard to get data.
That's really clean.
and if you do it often by.
this is the data in one way, which kind of undermines outlier detection.
Yeah.
It's almost like overtraining maybe.
for over when you're doing machine learning.
but a similar idea to that in, in that, yeah, it, it learned in that it learns very specific patterns as being, yeah.
So actually what's fairly common in outlier detection is to, to train and do inference on the same data, with the idea that, you know, you know, there's outliers in there anyway.
so, so in some cases, like, well, go back to the example of a, let's say a credit card company.
So you have, you want to check, all your transactions for the last day.
so you have a hundred gazillion and, you could, you could train on that and then you can also run inference on that.
So you can say relative to today's transactions.
Which are the unusual ones, unusual relative to.
Right.
I see.
So it's something you wouldn't do in prediction problems, but you actually can.
It's fairly common to do that in outlier detection.
And it, yeah, it's just with the idea that, you know, as long as most of the data is, is, is typical, most algorithms will be able to find the records that are the most extreme or the most unusual in one way or another.
relative to the other ones in the data.
Yeah.
That's very interesting.
That's interesting.
You can train on the data and then ask it to find the outlier liars in that same data.
Yeah.
It's just kind of interesting.
That seems very, very counterintuitive.
Yeah.
It is a little counterintuitive.
But like, well, if you met, I guess the simple example I have gave earlier where you have 10, 10 us purchasers for your company.
you would, you could use those 10 to establish a sense of what's normal.
And it would say, well, about four purchases a day is normal.
And this one person that has 200 every Friday, that's unusual.
So it's actually doing, you can, you know, do that in the same data.
Yeah.
Now, having said that, what you do do in outlier detection.
And this, you get a little bit of, you know, start with the original data and find the most anomalous records in there.
And then you might inspect them manually and say, okay, these are things, yeah, that we wouldn't normally expect to happen.
So we can remove those or, or there are things you say they're, they're extreme, but there's nothing wrong with them.
They could happen.
Yeah.
Maybe they're a lightning flash when you're looking through a telescope.
It's really bright.
Yeah.
Well, you get a lot of like, when you're dealing with anything like that, you get a lot of data artifacts where it's, it's not that the phenomena that happened that you're monitoring was unusual.
It's the equipment you use to monitor it.
Add some sort of, yeah, power or something like that.
That's a data artifact.
You might want to remove it.
So, so sometimes you just, you kind of iteratively make your data cleaner and cleaner and it gets a kind of more pristine sense
of what's normal.
I see.
But you can, you can over fit.
Yeah.
Of course.
Go too far.
Yeah.
Would you maybe find sort of do a, like you say, a loop a couple of times, say, train it and then ask it what's abnormal and figure out, well, these things are truly not part of the things we want to consider.
So we'll take them out and then train it again, excluding those and kind of like iterate on it that way.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
That's, it's not imperative, but that would be a fairly, fairly standard way to do things.
Okay, cool.
So I, we haven't properly introduced your book yet.
It's outlier detection and Python from me.
And I want to give you a chance to give a shout out about it.
And then we're going to, I want to talk to you about a couple of things that you've covered in your book, of course.
So I know that we have some discount code for the book that Manning has given us.
I'll put that in the show notes for people interested.
Yes.
Well, yeah.
Tell us, tell us about your book of it and why do you write it and what people can learn from it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, one, one job I worked at a few years ago, I just spent an enormous amount of time.
I was managing a research team.
And there's about 10 of us on the team.
And we looked into a lot of areas, but the biggest one for us.
And so we were doing a lot of work around that.
For, well, this is a company, as I mentioned, that was doing financial auditing.
So we're building tools that would allow financial auditors to, when performing an audit, examine their clients' data and just, you know, in a fairly easy way, see what's, you know, what's unusual in their data with the idea that, for example, if you're looking through their financial transactions, like if you're an accounting firm and you're auditing
Spatula world, this example I used to always give, for the word L fans, I guess, is they would have a set of sales and a set of purchases and set of payroll transactions and so on.
So you can go, what auditors would often do is, you know, just find the most anonymous of those, the ones that are among the most important to investigate.
To see if there's anything that could suggest an error or something like that.
So we spent a lot of time doing that.
We were working with regulators around the world, not just audit firms, but also regulators and bodies like that.
And we spent a lot of time looking at, well, how can we justify the outliers that we're finding?
Because, you know, if we run some of these, most of these algorithms are a little bit like black boxes, blocks, algorithms, like if you're doing a predictive model and you send something through an XGBoost model or a neural net or something, it gives you a prediction.
And it's hard to say why it made that prediction.
So a lot of outlier detection algorithms are like that.
But it's kind of an issue sometimes because an outlier detection, probably more than with prediction or classification or something or clustering, I should say.
It's important to have an explanation of why something is unusual.
If you're flagging something as being actually fraudulent, if you're doing security and you're flagging some web activity as being problematic or a person in some sort of security context is possibly being some sort of security risk.
You got to know why in order to investigate effectively.
So a lot of time looking at how to make outlier detection one interpretable and also just kind of justify the results that we're finding.
You know, if we if we if we were if we were building tools that would assess tables of data and come back with a summary of them saying, you know, these are the most unusual records.
And it's actually a problem to try to explain why that was the case.
So I ended up just reading hundreds of I think like literally hundreds of papers on the subject.
And we did a lot of original research and ended up building up quite a lot of expertise.
But also during that time, it just it just it was just a really fascinating, interesting problem.
Outlier detection is just a really it just kind of grabs you because, yeah, it's just kind of something fascinating.
But you're trying to figure out, you know, if you have a collection of images or collection of sound files or collection, like one job I had, we're working with network data, like social networks.
And in that case, you know, connection kind of graph models, you know, what are the most unusual records in there?
Yeah, it's just it's just it's just really challenging.
There's no definitive answer, but there's certainly good answers.
And there's ways to do it efficiently and interpretably and accurately.
But it's difficult, but it's it's it's really rewarding when you kind of get something a hard problem like that working well.
Yeah, I imagine it's the kind of thing that if you have those answers, you kind of become real good friends with the CEO or the decision makers.
They're like this person, this person can look at it and answer the questions that we can't even know to ask.
Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
It does open up different ways of thinking about about things.
And yeah. Yeah.
It's just yeah, it has a lot of a lot of benefits when you're looking at data.
Yeah. Imagine you can probably also make really important decisions for where to put your energy in your your company.
Right. Like you had spatula world as an example, like if some product all of a sudden seems like it's it's doing really well and that's an outlier.
Like, should you you should be able to answer.
This is actually gaining a lot of traction.
We should manufacture a bunch or no, that's just some weird glitch.
And that's not going to be that's not predictive of should we order 100000 green spatulas or is that just something weird that happened in some restaurant?
Yeah.
All the ones at a store or something.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, exactly.
It's it's really hard to but important to be able to quantify these things.
Exactly.
Yeah. Give some context of.
Yeah.
You could end up in a bad place.
Make an investment.
Yeah.
Yes.
It's the curse of of half understanding.
A little bit.
I've got a great idea.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's talk about some of the tools that you highlighted in your book.
like the PyOD.
Like the PyOD.
Mm hmm.
Python outlier detection.
Yeah.
Let's talk about this one.
What was the story of this thing?
It is used quite a bit used by 4000 people and 8.8000 GitHub stars.
That's pretty, pretty well used.
It is.
Yeah.
It's really the, it's the go to one for outlier detection in Python.
I think, I think anyone's doing any kind of machine learning work in, in Python.
I mean, the one tool there they'll know is scikit-learn.
And scikit-learn comes with four outlier.
Well, it comes with four outlier detectors.
And also.
So some tools that natively is outlier detection, like has a KDE tool, kernel density estimation.
Which makes it fairly easy to find outliers.
It's just points in space that have low density.
As a clustering method called Gaussian mixture models, GNM.
Which makes it outlier detection using that as well.
But PyOD, yeah.
So PyOD has those.
Has basically everything in scikit-learn.
Wraps it in its own interface.
And I think a couple dozen more.
And it also has a number of deep learning based ones.
So for tabular data, it's.
It's really to go first, probably.
So, yeah.
In terms of deep learning as well.
Auto encoders, variational auto encoders, GANs.
There are some limitations with PyOD.
And I do get into that in the book.
And soon.
For example.
Which, you know.
If you're dealing with tabular data.
Realistically, you have mixed data.
You know.
A lot of categorical columns.
Date columns.
So PyOD does not handle that.
And it's strictly for tabular data.
So if you're working with time series data.
Or image data.
Audio data.
That sort of thing.
There are other tools involved for that.
But, yeah.
For tabular data.
It's.
Pretty.
It's pretty much the most used one.
Okay.
Yeah.
So.
Let's see here.
Got the NLP 80 bench.
For.
NLP anomaly detection.
So I'm guessing this is.
In text.
I'm not sure.
You have to tell us.
What kind of stuff you detect with that.
But, you know.
I want to.
Give it some articles.
Or maybe give it social media posts.
Or.
Something along those lines.
And then ask it.
What kind of questions.
Could you ask it about that?
I mean.
NLP is kind of.
It's a dicey area.
Without layer detection.
And actually.
Dicey is too strong a word.
It's a harder area.
It's certainly a harder area.
To work with.
Because.
Like.
If.
If you have.
Tables of data.
Again.
Like.
Let's say.
Accounting data.
For example.
If a bunch of transactions.
It's.
It's difficult to say.
Which are the most unusual.
Transactions.
In your.
Data.
It's kind of.
Like.
You know.
When you see it.
Like.
If you see something.
That's very unusual.
You can say.
Okay.
That.
That transaction is unusual.
With text.
It's.
That is harder.
To say.
Like.
I mean.
If it's.
Yeah.
Completely different language.
Or something like that.
Or the tone.
Or.
You know.
Writing style.
Is completely.
Different.
Yeah.
Anomaly.
It could have.
It could have curse words.
And people might think.
It's angry.
But in fact.
It's just.
Sort of a coarse way.
Of expressing excitement.
Right.
Like.
Oh.
These people are really angry.
Like.
No.
They're actually really happy.
But they don't really express it.
Right.
But if the rest of the corpus.
Did not have any expletives.
Then.
Yeah.
In a sense.
That's.
That's anomalous.
In that way.
Yeah.
Which is so many ways.
It's just a little bit different.
Yeah.
It's.
I would consider it one of the more challenging areas of.
Yeah.
I would as well.
Of outlier detection.
Yeah.
Maybe talk about LLMs as well.
Straightforward as well.
Yeah.
I'm sure.
We'll talk about LLMs as well.
And see how that changes things.
Or not.
In a little bit.
But the other one you mentioned is scikit-learn.
Like this is.
Kind of the granddaddy of.
A lot of the data science type of stuff.
And they've got a whole section on novelty.
And outlier detection.
Yeah.
Maybe.
I'm going to hit it up on the screen for a little bit.
But give people a sense of.
The kind of problems you can ask with this one.
Well.
Yeah.
How did you solve?
Questions you can ask.
Yeah.
It's a little bit.
It's a little bit like Pi.
It's less so.
But.
And you know.
It doesn't have.
Like 30 sectors.
It has.
You know.
Four.
But it includes two of them.
So again.
It's just for tabular data.
And again.
It's just numeric tabular data.
But it has two of the.
The go-to algorithms.
They're called.
One's called isolation forest.
And the other is called local outlier factor.
And.
I think most of the time.
With outlier detection.
If you're doing.
You know.
On tabular data.
If you're only going to use two algorithms.
Those are the two.
Outlier detection.
Is a little bit different.
Than say prediction.
Because you know.
If you're building a predictive model.
Say on tabular data.
You know.
Most of the time.
You would use.
Say.
An XG boost model.
Or a cat boost model.
Or a random forest.
Or something like that.
You would tend to use one.
Model.
Sometimes it has to be.
So accuracy you can.
You would.
You'd create an ensemble.
I mean.
Actually boost.
Internally is an ensemble.
Of it's a boosted ensemble.
Of decision trees.
But.
You know.
Normally you wouldn't.
Sometimes you do.
I wouldn't say.
But probably more often.
We don't create.
You know.
An ensemble.
Of a KNN.
And an SVM.
And a neural net.
And a random forest.
In outlier detection.
That's a lot more common.
To do that.
And the reason is that.
Each outlier detection algorithm.
It can be a little bit limited.
In one way or another.
They're.
Not.
Not in an extreme way.
But they each look for.
Different types of outliers.
And they each look for outliers.
In different ways.
And it's just.
Is a lot more.
Advantage to using multiple.
Detection algorithms.
With outlier detection.
Than you would with.
Prediction.
And you can do it.
In just a really simple way.
If you say.
You know.
Psychic learn.
Has four outlier detectors.
It has.
Isolation forest.
Local outlier fact.
Has one called.
And has one called.
Elliptic envelope.
So if I run the four of those.
On my data.
And let's say.
They're all four of them.
Are appropriate.
And work well.
Any records that are scored highly.
By all four of those detectors.
You can say.
Well these.
These records are really.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
That's interesting to see.
Weird.
Yeah.
You can let it say.
We've checked many different ways.
And we've got the same answer.
That it's an outlier.
Yeah.
In these different.
So you have.
And so it's really likely.
Yeah.
It's really likely.
It's not necessarily a problem.
But it is statistically.
Unusual.
And.
Yeah.
I think.
You know.
If you're just a lot of intense.
Outlier detection.
Work to do.
You just have a.
You know.
Small data set.
And you just want to quickly.
Get a sense of.
What.
You know.
What are the most anomalous records in it.
Just using scikit-learn.
With the assumption that you.
You know.
You're using scikit-learn.
Anyways.
For a lot of you.
Using that is the.
Yeah.
Sufficient for a lot of cases.
If you.
Want to.
Do a little bit more thorough job.
Using more.
Detectors.
Again.
And just using.
Detectors that.
Can be a little bit more.
Pyod has one.
More.
As interpretable.
It could be a good.
Good decision.
Just to use pyod.
And use a bunch of.
The detectors there.
One of the nice things.
About pyod is it has the same.
API signature.
For all of its detectors.
So if you write code.
And it only.
Usually only like four.
Really kind of.
Easy.
Other than.
The hyper parameters for them.
It's really quite easy.
Just kind of swap one out.
And swap in another.
And just.
You know.
Try a whole.
Whole bunch of them.
So one thing.
I do get into the book.
Is that.
Yeah.
A lot of.
That can be.
Very useful to use.
The ones in pyod.
They're.
They're good.
And.
They're sufficient quite often.
But they're.
They're.
They're limited into how interpretable.
They are.
So again.
If you're in a situation.
Where you're saying.
Security.
Or this looks like.
Failing equipment.
A novel.
Specimen.
What.
Say.
Say from astronomy.
This looks like.
A novel.
Transit.
This is a transit.
That's not normal.
You kind of.
You want to know why.
And.
Yeah.
So a lot of the detectors.
From pyod.
Don't.
Don't provide that.
Necessarily.
To the degree.
You would wish.
So.
I.
You know.
Do suggest a bunch of others.
That could be useful.
For that purpose.
And that support.
Categorical.
Data.
As well.
But yeah.
Second learning is probably.
Numeric stuff.
Like male.
Female.
Or.
Exactly.
Low income.
Or whatever.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Okay.
Cool.
And another one.
We talked about time series.
A little bit.
You said the time series.
Are pretty challenging.
And.
I guess it depends on how much.
How rapidly.
The time series data.
Is coming in.
Yeah.
That's actually one of the things.
About time series data.
Is that.
It can.
It can be.
Streaming.
And coming in.
And.
Yeah.
So just like I was saying.
Like.
Very often.
We use.
And.
Ensembles.
Of outlier detectors.
To try and.
Analyze the data.
And.
By their nature.
Ensembles.
Can be a little bit slower.
Now you can run them in parallel.
Yeah.
Right.
Because it's basically.
You take three or four.
Or a thousand.
Decision trees.
And you ask them all.
What their answers are.
And then you kind of.
Like.
Decide what the.
It's like a voting process.
Or something almost.
Right.
Yeah.
So.
And that would be.
Exactly.
How you would do it.
In a predictive model.
So.
With.
An outlier detection model.
Well.
There's.
Probably the closest thing.
To what you just described.
With outlier detection.
Action is.
There's an.
Isolation forest.
Which is a forest.
Of isolation trees.
So it's kind of.
Similar ideas.
It's probably close to.
A little bit close to.
Random forest.
It's probably a little closer.
To extra trees.
For anyone who's.
Familiar with.
Predictive models.
Yeah.
That's an isolation forest.
So it's kind of.
The outlier detection.
Equivalent of.
Extra trees model.
Okay.
And.
Like that.
Is that.
It's.
You know.
Composed of a whole bunch of.
Trees.
And depending on the.
Implementation of it.
Not.
Psychic learns.
But.
Depending on the.
Implementation of it.
You can run all those.
Trees.
And you know.
Your answer is quite.
Fast.
If you have.
Sufficient hardware.
What can also be done.
Without layer detection.
Too is.
Which can actually.
Depending on your.
Your environment.
Working a little faster.
Can actually be faster.
To run your.
Detectors in sequence.
Believe it or not.
Because what you can do then is.
Is.
Tell you how you find your outliers.
But.
Say you say.
I only want.
I'm only concerned with things.
That are flagged by the isolation forest.
And.
The.
Local outlier factor.
Model.
And the.
K&N model.
Auto encoder model.
You can run them in.
So anything that's filtered out.
By the first model.
Doesn't need to be sent.
To the second model.
Right.
Or the third model.
Or the fourth model.
So you can run.
You can kind of put the fastest one out first.
And then the.
Second.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
Almost like thinking about it.
Like an if statement.
Or a while loop.
Or something.
In programming.
Where the ands.
Short circuit.
So.
You know.
Like.
You want to do the simplest test.
First.
And then the next one.
The next one.
And you're only going to evaluate it.
Until you hit a false.
And then you stop.
Yes.
Exactly.
Yeah.
That's.
That's a good way to put it.
Yeah.
Okay.
If you do it in sequence.
That's.
That'll definitely speed it up.
Rather than taking all the data.
Run it in parallel.
Across all the cores.
You're like.
Well look how awesome it is.
It's using all the cores.
But if.
Yes.
That's right.
You're like.
No.
We just run less of it.
So we don't have to do it so much.
Yeah.
I mean that.
There would still be benefit to that.
Notically how anomalous things are.
Which you might.
Like.
I mean if.
If you're not looking for.
To flag the individual anomalies.
You're trying.
You're more interested in collecting statistics about.
The volume of anomalies.
Like you're.
It's more.
A data monitoring project.
Or something like that.
As opposed to.
Picking out the.
Individual anomalies.
You might.
But if you just want to pick out the.
The really anomalous records.
Then yes.
They might be the ones that are flagged by.
All of your detect.
Or almost all of your detect.
Right.
Well you don't even have to do.
You could even do it partially.
Like.
If.
If it's not flagged by three.
Out of five.
Then we're not going to pass it further down the line.
Yeah.
Like you could.
You could still do some sort of intermediate.
More squishy.
Analysis like that.
But.
Yeah.
You could still short circuit.
Kind of a sweet spot.
Yeah.
That would be.
That would be a good balance.
I think.
Yeah.
Okay.
I mean it's all.
It's.
It's like anything.
There's going to be false positives.
And false negatives.
But.
You would get a good balance of that.
Yeah.
Nice.
So.
The.
One of the other projects that you called out is profit.
Time series anomaly detection.
With profit.
And it's based on.
The.
Facebook's open source.
Library.
Profit.
This is profit anomaly detection versus just.
Straight profit.
Which is.
A tool for.
Producing high quality forecast for time series.
Data that has multiple.
Seasonality.
With.
Linear and non-linear growth.
I imagine that.
Facebook.
Probably has a lot of data.
In its time series.
Yep.
If anyone does.
Yes.
They would have phenomenal amounts.
And there's probably all sorts of things.
They want to.
They want to forecast.
And.
Yeah.
This is.
So.
Tell people about this.
This project.
And how they might use it.
Yeah.
Well.
I mean.
There's.
There's a number of ways to do.
Outlier detection.
With time series data.
And it's.
It's a little bit like.
I was saying.
With tabular data.
You can look at.
Your data.
In all kinds of different ways.
And they might all be.
Legitimately.
Just find.
Different types of outliers.
A really.
Really simple.
Case.
Which.
Can be useful.
Despite its simplicity.
Is if.
You just have.
Just a timeline.
Over.
Over time.
Of points.
So.
Say you have.
Well.
Say your.
Social media.
Be.
Be enough.
That.
As.
You might want to.
Look at.
You know.
I don't know.
Your server usage.
Or.
Ad revenues.
And there's.
There's all.
Just all kinds of things.
That you're.
You're predicting.
Right.
Maybe.
One thing.
That things will be going viral.
And so maybe.
We should boost that.
In the algorithm.
And show it to more people.
Yeah.
Which.
Can be very good.
Or.
Not so good.
But anyway.
It still works.
With the incentives.
And the.
The goals of.
Hey.
We want more engagement.
On the platform.
Right.
Yeah.
So.
I mean.
I guess.
One of the simple.
Example.
Maybe weather data.
Or.
Going outside.
Of a social.
Media company.
Where you just.
Track.
You know.
Temperature over time.
And there's.
Certain seasonality.
To that.
What is that plot there?
That is.
Hard to say.
What that is.
Their example.
Is.
Let's see.
If they.
They call it out.
Oh.
That could be.
Weather data.
Or it could be.
It's not.
They don't really say.
Have they named their.
All their data.
Is named.
DF.
They do.
They profit.
Work.
They only have two columns.
There's the time.
Column.
And there's the.
Value column.
And then.
The legend says.
Anomaly.
Actual.
Predicted.
Base.
There's.
There's no.
Information here.
That tells you.
What data this is.
But it still gives you.
It's still a cool picture.
To show you how it works.
Yeah.
Here's the prior.
Block of.
Of data.
Like last week.
Or something.
And now.
Here's the next week.
And.
Are we going to predict.
If this is.
An anomaly.
Or not.
Right.
Yeah.
That is kind of the nature.
Of time series.
Data is.
It doesn't really matter.
If it's weather data.
Or stock data.
Or.
You know.
Bird migration data.
It's.
As long as there's certain.
Patterns to it.
That can be found.
You can work with it.
Kind of equivalently.
So.
Yeah.
What.
What they're.
I think they're showing.
Are it looks.
Something you often do in time series data.
Is you have a certain.
Pattern that's existed in time.
So there's a certain.
Downward trend in that.
And there's some.
Seasonality.
And so maybe.
This might be days of the week.
Or.
Yeah.
Those look like days of the week.
So.
Like.
Maybe things are busier on a weekend.
Or.
Or something like that.
And that.
Okay.
So.
Given the patterns that have.
Occurred in the past.
Where you know.
Look at the time of the day.
And.
The day of the week.
The.
Month.
The year.
And the like.
You can make.
Projections into the future.
Forecasts.
And.
Then you look at your actual data.
And if.
Your.
If your forecast is generally correct.
But you have some.
Points that are.
Way off from your projection.
You.
Those.
That's a form of anomaly.
Okay.
So.
So that's something that's often.
To actually just saying.
You know.
We.
Given the.
The history of.
Of what we've seen.
We would have really expected a value of.
You know.
10 here.
But we see a value of.
38.
So.
There's something unusual there.
It just doesn't follow the normal.
Seasonality.
And normal.
Trends that we've seen.
Yeah.
It probably can't necessarily.
Give you too much insight.
As to why.
But.
You should go look at it.
Right.
Because it's just.
Yeah.
The quantity.
And time.
Right.
It's pretty.
Sparse data.
Yeah.
I mean.
You might be able to see why.
You made the prediction you did.
Because it's just based on.
Depending on how you.
There's a lot of ways to do.
Profit works a certain way.
And there's.
There's a lot of ways to do.
Time series forecasting.
But generally.
You're just looking at.
The.
The regular patterns.
The general trend.
And.
Maybe just like.
Leg features.
And things like that.
So.
You can figure out.
Why you made the prediction you did.
But yeah.
Why it actually had.
The actual value that it did.
Yeah.
You'll probably have to go.
And investigate.
Sure.
Maybe pull up some.
Some different tools.
And different algorithms.
Now that you know.
And focus in on that.
All right.
But let's talk about one more thing.
While we're.
While we're here.
What's the story with.
MLMs.
And outlier detection.
And I think there's two angles.
I'd like to.
Talk about this with you.
Pretty.
Pretty quickly.
Just briefly.
One.
Can I just throw.
A ton of data.
At ChatGPT.
And I'm not talking.
The.
The ChatGPT for model.
I'm.
I'm talking like.
Oh one.
Reason.
You know.
The higher end model.
That can take.
Could hold all the data.
Potentially.
And it's a little bit more thorough.
And ask it.
Find me the outliers.
Like is that a world.
A thing that.
You might.
Might work.
And the other is.
Could I give it some data.
And say.
Describe the data.
Okay.
Here's the situation.
Here's what this data means.
Recommend me.
Algorithms.
And tools.
And libraries.
And even techniques.
To analyze it.
Like.
Does chat make sense.
For either of these?
It can.
I mean.
It's going to be like.
A lot of things.
If you have.
If you have an expertise.
In these.
Sort of areas.
You're going to be better off.
Just to take advantage.
Of that.
But.
Like a lot of areas.
Data science.
If you're working.
Into an area.
That you're.
You don't happen.
To have spent years.
Thinking about.
These.
Yeah.
These tools.
Can be a good place.
To get you started.
I've worked with them a bit.
And what I've found.
Is.
Though.
I have to admit.
I haven't used.
O1 yet.
I used tools.
That were a little bit older.
And.
What I was finding.
Is.
It was.
Suggesting.
Outliers.
But.
In.
A really.
Perfect.
A limited way.
So.
It would suggest.
Doing like a Z score.
Or Z score.
Test.
On your.
On your numeric columns.
Or checking into quartile ranges.
And things like that.
Which are.
Good ways to find outliers.
And.
I think it may be suggested.
You know.
Using an isolation forest.
And a couple.
Thanks.
I think.
Over.
Reasonably well.
It.
I.
I kept.
Trying to do a lot of.
Prompt engineering.
To try and get it to.
Push it towards more sophisticated analysis.
Of the data.
And.
That wasn't happening.
Though.
You know.
Who knows.
Maybe.
If not.
These.
This version.
Maybe.
I think.
We're heading.
To that point.
Where it can.
It can start to do that.
And again.
Yeah.
Same with trying.
To summarize the data.
And find the patterns.
In there.
You know.
It's able to do.
Fairly well.
Yeah.
It's not.
The level of.
Like.
You know.
What a real.
Certainly not.
The level of.
Someone with.
Domain expertise.
That really understands.
The data.
Is going to be.
Able to do.
But.
It can provide.
Some rough.
Summarization.
Of the data.
And.
Maybe point you.
In the right direction.
Yeah.
Some tools.
You don't know.
Maybe.
And you could go.
Use them.
Yeah.
I mean.
But.
So I'm not.
I'm kind of.
Like leaning towards.
Saying it's.
It's not going to be.
Doing the best.
But having said that.
They work a lot better.
When I have tested them.
For outlier detection.
Than.
You know.
A year ago.
Or something.
So.
It's.
It's heading in the direction.
Where they might be able to do something quite useful.
Yeah.
I've started using the O1 model.
And.
It's.
It's a lot slower.
But you just got to change your mindset.
It's not a chat conversation.
It's a.
No.
I've.
I've given this.
It's like I've given an intern a job.
And I expect it to come back with me.
Later.
And it's.
It's getting better and better.
It's.
It's a crazy time.
Yeah.
Oh.
It's.
Too remarkable.
Yeah.
It really is.
All right.
Awesome.
Well.
Mixed feelings.
But I.
Yeah.
I know.
Let's close this whole thing out with.
Maybe.
Just a.
A final call to action.
People are.
Are interested in this topic.
They want to do more.
Maybe.
Another shout out to your book.
If you want.
And.
Yeah.
Just people.
People are interested.
They want to do more.
Go deeper.
What do you tell them?
Oh.
Definitely.
I would recommend the book.
Of course.
I really.
It's on Manning.
I really wanted to write.
When I was looking to write.
With Manning.
It's just a publishing company.
I.
Always.
Thought.
Highly.
Scope.
Manning.com.
And look for outlier detection.
And I think.
Well.
If you have.
The affiliate link.
That'll give you 45% off too.
Which is.
Which is a nice link.
I think.
I mean.
Yeah.
You know.
The book has gotten.
Quite good feedback.
I.
One thing.
I really.
Is.
People.
Are architects.
Of the.
You know.
The most important.
Algorithms.
In outlier detection.
So things like.
Isolation forest.
Local outlier factor.
Extended isolation forest.
They gave some really nice.
Feedback.
On the book.
So it's gotten.
Yeah.
Quite.
Quite good feedback.
So far.
And I think it's.
Probably.
As comprehensive.
A book.
As you need.
Like.
I'll say.
It's quite comprehensive.
I was going through it.
Yeah.
I think.
It covers what you would.
Yeah.
I think.
Now.
It does.
It does mean.
You know.
If you're not doing.
Time series analysis.
For example.
You can.
Probably skip the chapter.
In time series analysis.
But.
Or deep learning.
Most of it.
I think.
Is.
Is actually.
There's a lot of gotchas.
Without.
Outlier detection.
I mean.
They're not.
You know.
Too hard to get your head around.
But you do have to think about them.
And.
So.
It does cover.
Pretty much.
Anything you want.
Would need to know.
I think.
For almost any case.
You wouldn't need to.
Look for too many other resources.
After reading this.
Yeah.
Excellent.
And.
Pyod is also.
Another good resource.
Maybe to get started with.
You think.
I would.
Yeah.
Depending on your situation.
There's Pyod.
Yeah.
And then.
If you really need to go into deep learning.
I would go into deep OD.
Or.
Or even just Pyod.
And for time series.
There's.
Quite a number of.
Of libraries.
You can use as well.
Okay.
Excellent.
Well.
Thank you so much.
For being on the show.
And.
Sharing your work.
Well.
Thank you very much.
For having me.
Yeah.
That was very good.
You bet.
Bye now.
Thank you.